The Samsung Galaxy Flip 4 is a good folding phone that feels one generation shy of hitting its stride. The updates over last year’s Flip 3 are so minimal that this phone mostly could have been a firmware update. That makes the Flip 4, like its predecessor, an impressive technical achievement with a couple of shortcomings that — if Samsung addresses them — would make a big difference to the user experience.

If the Galaxy Fold 4 combines a tablet and a phone experience into one device, then the Flip 4 is what happens when you combine a smartwatch and a phone. The tiny 1.9-inch cover screen includes a couple more useful features than the Flip 3’s, like sending quick canned text replies, but even so, it’s significantly limited in what it allows you to do. Sort of like a smartwatch glued to the back of a phone that folds in half.

Even though it’s not much different from last year, and there’s still room for improvement, I genuinely like this phone a lot — but not for the reasons I thought I would. I really like taking pictures with it, even though the cameras are just kinda average. It’s also less attention-hungry than most smartphones. It’s much easier to read a notification on the tiny cover screen, dismiss it, and move on with my life than with a traditional slab-style phone. I appreciate that, even if Samsung did this by accident.

The Flip 4 is compact, but I wouldn’t call it a small phone. When you actually need to do something with it, nine times out of 10, you have to open it, and then the jig is up: it’s a certified Big Phone. But it does fit comfortably into the front pocket of my jeans when it’s folded, which is handier than I expected.

The things that made the Flip 3 good are still good here: there’s robust waterproofing, an excellent main screen, and a $999 price tag — high, but not astronomically high like the $1,799 Fold 4. But whether or not you should snap it up depends on what you’re looking for. Most people, I suspect, will want the version of this device that’s (hopefully) coming next: something with a bigger, more useful cover screen and a slimmer profile. Right now, it’s both an incredible little device that I’m very tempted to buy for myself and one that falls short of its full potential.

Samsung made some subtle cosmetic changes that give the Flip 4 a little bit of a different vibe than the 3. The aluminum rails are glossy, in contrast to the softer matte finish on the Flip 3, and the hinge is a little bit flatter. There’s nobody on earth who should trade in their Flip 3 for the 4 just for these tweaks, but they give the phone a higher-end look that suits it.

The hinge is still firm and demands that you use two hands to open it. You can kind of pry it open with one hand and flip it the rest of the way if you flip really hard, but doing that makes me queasy. There’s still a gap between the two halves of the screen when the phone is closed, and the thickness is the same as it was for the Fold 3: 17.1mm at the hinge and 15.9mm where the two ends of the screen meet. Fun fact: Samsung calls that the “sagging” side in its specifications.

And I’m still getting over the utter thrill of fitting this whole phone easily into the front pocket of my jeans. I’m usually one to put my phone in my back pocket when I’m up and about and not actively using it. This means I have to take it out of my pocket or put my device in very real danger of being pulverized whenever I sit down. With the Flip 4, I don’t even have to play this dangerous game — whether I’m sitting or standing, it fits in that front pocket. It’s a little snug, like I’m carrying a wallet, but it’s definitely less risky.

Like the Flip 3, the Flip 4 is IPX8-rated, so you can submerge it in freshwater, but it isn’t sealed against dust. That’s because it really can’t be, what with the hinge and all. There are little brushes inside to try and keep dust from getting sucked in and ruining the screen, but Samsung makes no guarantees.