Nokia 5710 XpressAudio review: The idea of integrating TWS with a phone is clever, the battery lasts for days, and its vintage design has plenty to love.

Lately, I am in this phase where I enjoy using devices that look like toys and have a “fun” element to them. My love and appreciation for unique phones began when a seller tried to sell me a Nokia Ngage “the taco phone” during the pandemic. Somehow, wacky designs are making a comeback. The new Nokia 5710 XpressAudio is a fun feature phone with the looks of the classic Nokia phone but with a slide-out panel in the back to house a pair of true wireless headphones. Yes, you read that right.

Here’s my experience using the unique Nokia 5710 XpressAudio.

The Nokia 5710 Xpress Audio is a familiar phone. An ode to the classic Nokia 5700 XpressMusic which I had while growing up, this reimagined phone adopts a candy-bar form with a small (ish) screen measuring 2-inches and a classic T-9 keyboard resembling Nokia’s handsets of the past. However, the new Nokia 5710 doesn’t rotate like the original Nokia 5700. This all-black phone with red markings on the left and right will surely attract your attention. Given that this is a feature phone, the chances are the young generation will either love it or hate it.

The right edge houses three keys to control the music player and the satisfaction you get pressing these physical buttons is unmatched. I like the volume buttons on the left side which are large and easy to use. Undoubtedly, the Nokia 5710 has a clean and beautiful design. For me, the biggest draw for the Nokia 5710 was the form factor.

It’s small, although a little chubby, and fits in the palm of my hand. The device feels compact and light as a feather, reinforcing the toy aspect. It isn’t made of premium material, like smartphones of today, still it is extremely well-built. The plastic housing feels solid and satisfying. The black-and-red colour combo enhances the aesthetics of the phone and the patterned back cover adds more style.

I was disappointed to see no 3.5mm headphone jack on a music-centric phone like this but you do get Bluetooth 5.0 connectivity, meaning any wireless headphones can be paired with this. Around the back, there’s a dedicated charging compartment, which when slid reveals a pair of truly wireless earbuds. The microSD card and dual-SIM card slots are located under the battery cover.

The micro-USB port on the bottom of the phone allows you to sync and copy files between the phone and PC, and the 0.3-megapixel camera lives on the back of the device.

The Nokia 5710’s most notable and unique feature is the sliding cover on the back of the device. I mean, the Nokia 5710 is defined by its audio features and the wireless earbuds slot adds a new dimension to the experience. The concept of a phone with a built-in slot for a pair of true wireless earbuds is fascinating. Just slide the slot on the back cover, remove TWS, and you are good to listen to the music. Once you are done listening to music, keep the buds back in the case, which by the way also charges your TWS.

For me, this is a completely new and refreshing way to use TWS. The best part is I no longer have to deal with the inconvenience of carrying a separate charging case which is an inseparable part of most true wireless earbuds. In fact, I had been using an Apple Watch band with a dedicated slot to hold my AirPods until I finally switched to the Nokia 5710 XA which natively comes with a pair of true wireless earbuds at no extra cost.