Samsung has upgraded the new Galaxy Z Fold 4 with a better hinge design, and the cameras have also gotten better. So, is this the foldable to buy? Well tell you in this detailed review of Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4. 

Foldables are an interesting specimen in the market. Everyone talks about it but very few have managed to make it work. Samsung is so far ahead of the pack, it has a fourth-gen model that people can buy, albeit at a hefty price. Samsung has introduced the Galaxy Z Fold 4 this year, its flagship product in the truest sense. The company has been making changes, minute ones that are slowly but surely making its foldable a reliable and a competent force in the industry.

Foldables are different, and yet, they are smartphones that are there to deliver on your regular computing tasks and more. So, does Samsung achieve to make the Galaxy Z Fold 4 a better version of its foldable attempts so far? We used the device to find the answer. 

The improvised hinge on the Galaxy Z Fold 4 definitely makes a difference. You can feel the device being a lot more durable than before, and the hinge has a big part to play in that change.

You can’t complain about the build quality and the materials used for the construction of this device. You still have to use two hands to unfold the device, and we would like that part of the foldables to become less cumbersome.

The finer details have allowed Samsung to give it a better in-hand feel this year, which is where the weight being lighter than its predecessor helps. The vertical camera layout at the back creates less protrusion. The device gets IPX8 rating which makes it water resistant up to 1.5 metres for 30 minutes. On the whole, Galaxy Z Fold 4 feels like a polished version. 

The outer display on the Galaxy Z Fold 4 measures at 6.2-inch, with support for an AMOLED panel at 904×2316 pixels resolution and 120Hz refresh rate. It is good to see Samsung offer Corning Gorilla Glass Victus+ protection. 

When you unfold the device, the 7.6-inch form factor awakens to give you a 120Hz AMOLED panel with HDR10+ support, and a peak brightness of 1200 nits. The crease has definitely become less prominent, and you might not notice it all the time, but it is there. 

Would have liked Samsung to integrate an in-display fingerprint sensor, but that is probably a challenging prospect on this unique form factor.

Samsung has given the device its best display unit, and the colours are punchy, like with most AMOLED panels, and bringing 120Hz refresh rate to both the screens adds that extra touch of fluidity. The blacks are deep, and the high contrast nature of these panels come true.

Samsung has gone with the latest Snapdragon 8+ Gen chipset, paired with 12GB RAM which is expandable by up to 8GB using the RAM Plus feature. We got the 256GB variant to review, and it should be ideal for most users. 