t will always show the age of the reviewer if they refer to when they last had a Nokia, back in those early, pre-smart, text and calls days. As the hoary old mythology will relate, your Nokia’s phone charge lasted for days on end, even a week perhaps, and it didn’t matter a whole lot if you dropped it. No broken screens, matt-like finishes, and durability that ensured your Nokia phone lasted you a long long time.

Naturally we all know, more or less, what then played out as they were overtaken by other companies and phones which delivered the online experience in a better, larger, more visible screen time way. At the same time there is still a residual sense of many people being positively disposed towards Nokia and what it might be able to offer and deliver this time around.

This time around, and with this particular mode, the T10 tablet, the device does a lot of things very well. Before we get to that however its arrival did prompt a series of questions around the question of when is a device a tablet, and when is it a phone. Maybe there is a specific size at which one is X and one is Y, however while this is branded as a tablet it is certainly at the smaller end of the scale. Which, as, we see product size creep on many of the new wave of smart phones. does mean that the Nokia T10 is not much bigger than some of those phones.

As you would expect from Nokia, this device is well designed, boots up quickly, and is, this time around, heavily embedded in the Android apps ecosystem. It looks like they are focussed on delivering solid, quality hardware, and not getting drawn into try to offer it’s own apps or ecosystem onto you. This probably makes sense and there is a lot to like about the product. One thing perhaps is that, in a similar way to the newer Google Pixels, it is definitely on the slippery side when you hold it. This is perhaps a current penchant for a more ‘gloss-like’ feel, rather than a more tactile matt feel. There are reasons why this might be preferred but it can mean that you are always concerned that the device will simply slip out of your hands.