Even if you have perfect vision, most people only remember about 80% of what they see. You may not always remember exactly what you saw, especially in a stressful situation like a car collision. That’s one reason having a dash cam(opens in a new tab) can be helpful. 

TOKK™ CAM C2+ is a versatile camera that works as a dash cam, but there are a lot of other ways you could use it, even at night. For a limited time, this discreet camera is on sale for $60.99 (reg. $89). 

TOKK™ Cam is a seriously tiny camera, measuring 1.5 inches around. With day and night vision, you could get a high-resolution view(opens in a new tab) in 1280x720p HD from your dashboard or anywhere else you place your little camera.

TOKK™ CAM even has a magnetic base for easy attachment to your car or other metal surfaces. Stick it in your fridge to find out who’s been stealing your lunch. Or you could hide it on your porch if you’re dealing with disappearing packages. You could even use it as a body cam. It has its own clip to attach to your clothes, and the flat design is subtle. Plus, when you connect using the free iCookyCam, you can stream a live view directly to your iOS or Android device. 

On a single charge, this little camera could get up to 90 minutes of working time. With a 64GB microSD card and/or a cloud option (which is free for your first 30 days),  the H264 encoding could let you store up to 20 days worth of recording. It even has a motion detection feature and a built-in microphone. 

On a single charge, this little camera could get up to 90 minutes of working time. With a 64GB microSD card and/or a cloud option (which is free for your first 30 days),  the H264 encoding could let you store up to 20 days worth of recording. It even has a motion detection feature and a built-in microphone. 

It’s small enough, you may even be able to attach it to your pet’s collar to see what kind of shenanigans they get up to while you’re away. 

Get an objective view of what’s going on around you. For a limited time, get the TOKK™ CAM C2+ Range of Smart WiFi Discreet Day/Night Vision Camera(opens in a new tab) for $60.99 (reg. $89). 