This scanner app includes AI additions that set it apart from the competition

Instantly scan documents to your phone and edit them digitally.

We've all been there. You need to scan something, but you no longer have a printer with the scanner on top. A quick search on the App Store yields tons of scanning apps, but it can be hard to pick one that doesn't charge a hefty monthly fee. That's where iScanner App(opens in a new tab) sets itself apart.

Not only does this game-changing scanning app offer unique features that other scanner apps don't, but it also has a lifetime subscription available that makes it much more affordable to operate. On the heels of the brand new feature, the new geometric dewarping algorithm(opens in a new tab), a lifetime subscription to iScanner App is currently available for just $39.99, 79% off the usual price, for a limited time. 

Though on its face a scanning app doesn't sound super exciting, the perks of this particular app and its AI additions make it a must-have for anyone who's ever had to scan a document on the go(opens in a new tab).

The recently released dewarping feature has changed the game. You'll be able to fix scans that were taken from crooked or bent pages, skewed perspectives, and more. The optimization used in the dewarping tool produces high-resolution images and seamlessly transfers them into an editable PDF. This U.S.-based digital tool transforms your Apple product into a powerful digital office, thanks to the magic of AI. This advancement in technology makes high-quality scans of important documents, educational materials, to-do lists, or anything else you need to scan easily accessible, while also letting you edit, mark up, and share them. 

This scanner app sets itself apart with the ability to count similar objects and solve math problems and equations, making it an excellent pick for students or business owners. 

Aside from high ratings from subscribers, national outlets have also recognized iScanner App. 9to5Mac raved that it single-handedly "brings handy AI-based object counting camera feature to iPhone."

See what all the fuss is about AI and secure a lifetime of convenient scanning(opens in a new tab), counting, and more with a lifetime subscription to iScanner App for just $39.99 for a limited time. 