The ever-evolving tech world has now gifted us that one gadget you simply can’t give a miss - Earbuds. A saviour for many, it comes with several benefits like being wireless, providing clear voice quality, allowing you to do more than talking, like listening to music or podcasts and looking comfortable and stylish. But, how do you know which one to get for yourself? It’s viable to go for a trusted brand that believes in innovation-led products to better consumer experience. And in this regard, Samsung, one of the leading players in the tech market, has just unveiled its latest Galaxy Buds2 Pro.

Here’s why it is the talk of the town and an absolute favourite amongst tech enthusiasts:

This offering from Samsung elevates your experience of enjoying your favourite song or watching your favourite movie because of the absolute clarity of sound. The ergonomically designed Galaxy Buds2 Pro has 2-way speakers with 24bit Hi-Fi sound that simply takes all your daily worry of encountering weak or glitchy phone calls away by minimizing perceptual sound loss. Every note in this gadget will sound like the real thing because clear audio starts at the source with this Samsung Galaxy device. What you end up with is a steady and high-quality sound anywhere and everywhere you go. So, now hear a sound as it was intended - clearly and wirelessly!

This feature lets you completely submerge yourself into the sound, making it more realistic. The direct multi-channel (5.1, 7.1, Dolby Atmos) support, for instance, provides a true cinematic audio experience like never before. Yes, the clarity of the sound is as clear as it feels in a theatre! The Galaxy Buds2 Pro also has a head tracking response, thanks to the enhanced Motion Prediction feature based on machine learning. What that means is it makes the sound follow every head movement and ends up giving you the most immersive audio experience even when in motion. 360 Audio can even pinpoint the direction of the sound as you move your head, giving you the spatial experience. So, you are guaranteed to feel like being at the center of the stage when it comes to these Samsung earbuds!

With the first all-high SNR (Signal-to-Noise Ratio) microphones in the Galaxy Bud series, the Galaxy Buds2 Pro filters out 40% more noise than Buds Pro and makes the environment quieter. It actively tracks and eliminates more outside sounds — even soft sounds like wind. This is further effective due to Galaxy Buds2 Pro’s windshield area, which is almost twice in size than its predecessor, further eliminating most of the unwanted ambient noise. Now, you can fully focus on things that are more important to you.

Re-designed by Samsung to be 15% smaller than the Galaxy Buds Pro, so it fits snugly in your ears, your next buds are calling you!

It’s raining offers!

The smartphone giant has carefully priced this gadget at Rs 17,999. You can get Rs 3,000 instant cashback if you opt for credit or debit card no-cost EMI options. There are exchange benefits of upto Rs 3,000 as well, and you can get an additional Rs 2,000 off on Samsung Shop App.

So, without further ado, introduce yourself to the ultimate style, comfort and clarity with Samsung’s latest marvel - The Galaxy Buds2 Pro. Always on the beat. 