There’s only one day left until the Made by Google event kicks off in New York, where the tech giant is set to announce its new Pixel 7 line-up, as well as the Pixel Watch. But they’re not the only products we’ll be eyeing up tomorrow afternoon..

Google announced that it would also be unveiling some new Nest smart home products at the event. However, it apparently couldn’t wait to lift the lid on its newest Nest gizmos, because the company has just revealed the two latest Nest products in a blog post.

The company will be launching a new 2nd gen wired Nest doorbell, which replaces the current Nest hello (£229, Google.com), as well as a Nest wifi pro mesh router with wifi 6E. We’re expecting to hear more about the two devices during the event at 3pm tomorrow.

In a blog post, Google also detailed the updates it would be making to the Home app, which will feature new customisation and automisation settings, as well as information about the Matter smart home connectivity standard, which launched yesterday on 4 October.

Intrigued about the new Nest smart home products? We’ve rounded up everything you need to know about the 2nd gen Nest doorbell (wired) and the Nest wifi pro mesh router including when and where you can pre-order them.

ExtrasIndyBestTech
Google launches new Nest doorbell and Nest wifi pro router – here’s when you can pre-order in the UK

The company has announced its latest smart home gadgets ahead of its big hardware event
Alex Lee
2 days ago
<p>The Nest wifi pro features the new wifi 6E protocol </p>

The Nest wifi pro features the new wifi 6E protocol

There’s only one day left until the Made by Google event kicks off in New York, where the tech giant is set to announce its new Pixel 7 line-up, as well as the Pixel Watch. But they’re not the only products we’ll be eyeing up tomorrow afternoon...

Google announced that it would also be unveiling some new Nest smart home products at the event. However, it apparently couldn’t wait to lift the lid on its newest Nest gizmos, because the company has just revealed the two latest Nest products in a blog post.

The company will be launching a new 2nd gen wired Nest doorbell, which replaces the current Nest hello (£229, Google.com), as well as a Nest wifi pro mesh router with wifi 6E. We’re expecting to hear more about the two devices during the event at 3pm tomorrow.

In a blog post, Google also detailed the updates it would be making to the Home app, which will feature new customisation and automisation settings, as well as information about the Matter smart home connectivity standard, which launched yesterday on 4 October.

Intrigued about the new Nest smart home products? We’ve rounded up everything you need to know about the 2nd gen Nest doorbell (wired) and the Nest wifi pro mesh router including when and where you can pre-order them.

Read more:

    Pixel 6 and 6 pro review: No-brainer devices for Android users
    Apple iPhone 14: Best deals on the pro, max and plus handsets
    Google Pixel 7: How much could it cost?
    Best smart home devices that make life easier
    Best video doorbells for upgrading your home security system

Google Nest doorbell (wired), 2nd gen: $179.99/£159, Google.com – not available in the UK
(Google)

The 2nd gen Google Nest doorbell (wired), as its plainly named, is the long-awaited follow-up to the Nest hello and is a wired version of the Nest doorbell battery model (£179.99, Google.com), which has to be recharged. It looks just like the battery model, but it’s a little bit slimmer and a little shorter.

In specs terms, the Nest Hello actually has a higher resolution than the Nest doorbell (wired), featuring a 1600 x 1200 vs a 960 x 1280 resolution at 30 frames per second on the newer model. The Nest doorbell (wired) also has a 1.3MP colour sensor, as well as HDR imaging, plus it will still be able to capture a full body view with a 145-degree field of view.

You’ll also get alerts for packages, people, vehicles and animals. A Nest Aware subscription will give you the Nest’s Familiar Faces feature, which will tell you exactly who is at the door. You can also set up activity zones and quick alert responses.

Plus, you get a three-hour event history window for free – any longer than that and you’ll need a Nest Aware subscription, which gives you up to 60 days of video recordings triggered by events. Unlike the battery version, if you’ve got a Nest Aware Plus subscription, you’ll also be able to record 24/7. And it comes in four colours – snow, linen, fog and lemongrass

Google previously told The Independent that the 2nd gen Nest doorbell (wired) would be coming to the UK ahead of publication, but has clarified that this isn’t the case. You will only be able to buy it in the US for $179.99. Hopefully this changes in the future.