While Netscape didn’t invent the internet or HTML, it was the company that made the internet real. Netscape advanced with Tim Berners-Lee’s creation of HTML and was instrumental in turning it into something that changed the world.

Last week at Siggraph, Nvidia’s opening keynote identified Universal Scene Description (USD) developed by Pixar, which is a Disney subsidiary, as the equivalent of HTML for the metaverse. Since Pixar wouldn’t exist without Steve Jobs, this is kind of like putting Pixar in where Berners-Lee was, and Nvidia where Netscape was, but unlike Netscape, Nvidia is very well run and knows how to pick its battles.

Nvidia also spoke to the future of the metaverse, where avatars will become similar to browsers, forming a new level of human/machine interface. Nvidia also announced the concept of neural graphics, which is based heavily on AI to create more realistic metaverse graphical elements with far less work.

This week let’s talk more about what happened at Siggraph — and how Nvidia and Disney can, and should, showcase their strengths at the forefront of the metaverse.

Then we’ll close with my product of the week, an update on an HP Halo product, the Dragonfly laptop which just released its third version. Halo products showcase the full capabilities of the vendor and draw people to the brand, and this one positions well against Apple’s best.

I’m an ex-Disney employee and I can’t think of another company on the content side that would be a better foundation for the creation of the metaverse.

Disney has always been about imagination and trying to make magic seem real. While the firm had issues over the years maintaining its innovative leadership, it still outpaces every one of its peers both in terms of physical, magical locations to visit and movie content that draws in all age groups, but especially the young.

It is fascinating that the concept of the multiverse, which could easily become a metaverse construct, as portrayed by the Marvel Universe, which is also owned by Disney, suggests that as the metaverse moves into the consumer market, Disney may become even more powerful as a driver of this new technology for entertainment.

This is a long way of saying that given its ties to USD and entertainment, Disney may well be the best positioned media company to take advantage of this new paradigm and turn its version of the metaverse into something truly amazing. Imagine the potential for metaverse Disney parks that kids can enjoy from their homes during extreme weather events, pandemics, or wars.