As incoming CEO of Ford Motor

Jim Farley promised more transparency to Wall Street as well as a clear plan for the future.

At the time, Ford was considered behind the industry when it came to all-electric and autonomous vehicles, connectivity and software. Its messaging and plans were unclear to Wall Street, causing shares to tumble.

Two years later, Farley, 60, has largely delivered on his promises through the company’s ongoing Ford+ transformation plan, but there remains work to be done.

He has restructured operations and largely brought Wall Street back into the automaker’s corner for the first time since Alan Mulally – credited with saving the automaker from bankruptcy in 2009 – stepped down as CEO eight years ago. Ford’s stock is up about 70% since Farley took over, despite recent declines.

“What matters to us and the team is delivering on strong business results,” said Farley told CNBC in August 2020, when he was announced as incoming CEO. “As far as communicating to Wall Street … one of the most important commitments that we’re making as a team is a clear and specific plan for the company and the company’s transformation.”

Both of Farley’s predecessors – Jim Hackett and Mark Fields – left the automaker amid lackluster stock prices and failing to create confidence in the automaker on Wall Street. Under Hackett, a former CEO of furniture company Steelcase
, Ford’s stock price declined by 40%.

But, as Farley routinely says, the automaker remains in the early innings of its Ford+ transformation plan and the industry’s shift to electric vehicles – likely representing the stock’s improvement under Farley but also its recent fall amid a larger market decline. Ford’s stock achieved decades-high prices of more than $25 a share to begin the year, but it’s off about 56% from its peak in January.

There remain doubts about the outlook for the auto industry as well as Ford’s ability to execute on its plans. The company has continued to experience problems with vehicle launches, warranty costs and supply chains – all things Farley vowed to fix upon becoming CEO.

“Key risks to our view relate to Ford’s ability to profitably pivot to growth areas such as EVs and AVs, the auto cycle, market share, and margins (both margin pressure in a downturn and margin expansion longer term from company specific initiatives),” Goldman Sachs analyst Mark Delaney said in a note to investors last week.

Most recently, the company surprised Wall Street by pre-releasing part of its third-quarter earnings report, warning investors of $1 billion in unexpected supplier costs. Since then, shares of the company are down by more than 23%, including its largest daily fall in 11 years a day after the announcement.

