September is usually a bad month for investors, with the S&P 500 falling on average by about 1%, according to Howard Silverblatt, a senior analyst with S&P Dow Jones Indices.

But this September, it fell by more than 9%.

That makes this the worst September since 2002, when it fell by 11%.

It's another bleak milestone in a year where the stock market has seemingly gone from bad to worse and hurt almost every investor, from those making contributions to their 401(k) accounts to portfolio managers overseeing hundreds of billions of dollars. With so much turbulence over the last quarter, month and even week, the chances that the stock market will end 2022 on a high note have nearly evaporated.

By the end of September, all three major indexes were solidly in bear market territory, meaning they have fallen more than 20% each from their highs.

The S&P has also had the worst year-to-date performance in 20 years. The tech-heavy Nasdaq is down more than 30% already this year. The Dow, which fell 9% this month, has erased any gains it made in the last two years, falling back where it was in November 2020.

Entering the final three months of the year, the best thing to do with money may be to put it under the proverbial mattress. Or at least in short-term Treasury bills, which are yielding just about 3.3%.

"Literally, the only bull market in the world right now is the bull market for cash," says Julian Emanuel, who is in charge of portfolio strategy at Evercore ISI.
Wall Street is uneasy with high inflation, and how central banks are fighting it

This has been the year of high inflation, and Wall Street's view of it has only worsened this last month.

There are worrisome signs that inflation is becoming more entrenched, which will make it harder to contain. On Friday, the Federal Reserve's preferred inflation gauge, the government's personal consumption expenditures index, showed a larger-than-expected increase in August.

Then, there is what central banks are doing about the problem and what might result from their actions. In September, many of them hiked interest rates aggressively, including the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, and, of course, the Federal Reserve.

"We have never had an instance like this, at least in the few decades, when so many central banks have been tightening monetary policy simultaneously," says Ruchir Sharma, the chairman of Rockfeller International.