Last week, stocks tumbled to their lowest level since November 2020. The S&P 500 fell 2.9% to close the week at 3,585.62. The index is now down 25.2% from its January 3 closing high of 4,796.56.

There were some unnerving developments in the world in recent days.

    The U.K. government unexpectedly announced tax cuts that sent the British pound tumbling and drew criticism from the IMF.

    The Nord Stream gas pipeline was damaged, putting Europe’s energy security at greater risk.

    Russia announced the illegal annexation of regions in Ukraine.

    Corporate America — according to Apple, Nike, Micron, and CarMax — is not selling as much stuff as planned.

Federal Reserve officials, meanwhile, continue to reiterate the central bank’s hawkish stance despite falling stock prices and the rising risk of a recession.

It’s unclear how all of these events will unfold. And there’s no telling what other news may emerge that could destabilize world financial markets.

We do, however, know there’s a long history of events that rocked the markets and shocked the economy. And we also know that the markets and the economy eventually emerged stronger. Read more here, here, and here.

There’s lots to learn from stock market history. One thing is for sure: If you can commit the time, you don’t want to miss the rally.

The market always comes back stronger: The chart below comes from eToro’s Callie Cox. It shows the percentage losses in the S&P 500 during bear markets since 1956, and the percentage gains in the bull markets that followed.

It’s a reminder of TKer Stock Market Truth No. 4: Stocks offer asymmetric upside. In other words, while you can only lose as much as you put in, you can earn multiples of what you put in on the upside.

The first two years of recoveries are huge: This table comes from Carson Group’s Ryan Detrick. In year one of a market recovery, the S&P 500 has returned a whopping 30% on average. In year two, the S&P 500 adds another 37% on average.

The good days happen near bad days: From Vanguard’s Greg Davis: “Successfully timing the stock market is near impossible, partly because the best trading days tend to cluster around the worst ones. And missing just a few of those rally days has a surprisingly outsized impact. Looking at market data going back much further, to 1928, being out of the stock market for just the best 30 trading days would have resulted in half the return over that period.“

Stocks can rally as unemployment climbs: The chart below comes from JPMorgan Asset Management’s Q4 Guide to the Markets. It shows how the S&P 500 (green line) and the unemployment rate (purple line) moved around the last nine recessions (shaded area).