The savings and fixed income landscape grows more diverse every day and individuals have many options at their fingertips. When making an investment, you will want to consider how much money you could get in return. Here’s a breakdown of how much interest $500,000 can earn per year.

A financial advisor can help you tailor your investment portfolio to specific needs and goals.

Interest is the name of the game when it comes to fixed-income investments. Without it, there would be no incentive to not just keep all of your money under your mattress. Here’s an overview of the kind of interest you can expect from four common fixed-income instruments:

Bonds

Investors are drawn to bonds, and really any type of fixed-income investment, due to the greatly reduced risk of negative outcome relative to more lucrative investments such as stocks. With bonds, the return on your investment is often known at the point of purchase. Although it is often a lower return than the best-case scenario of riskier investments, the certainty provides a lot of value when it comes to balancing out a portfolio.

When you purchase a standard bond, you agree to receive a set percentage of the price of your bond in interest. This percentage is called the coupon rate, and its size is largely dependent on the interest rates in the market at the time you purchase the bond. So, if you bought $500,000 in bonds that have a 3.45% coupon rate, you would receive 3.45% of your balance in interest throughout the term of your bond. Most bonds compound semi-annually, so if you put a bond with a term longer than six months, you will also have the opportunity to earn interest on your interest.

Treasury Bonds

Famous for being the safest investment of all, many investors are attracted to the prospect of United States treasury bonds (sometimes referred to as T–bonds), because the United States government guarantees their return. This means that the risk of a loss on your investment is effectively removed.

The process of purchasing newly issued T-bonds is a bit complex. The exact price you pay for a bond isn’t entirely predictable beforehand, as the bonds are issued by the government via an auction. So while you may go into the auction expecting to purchase a $500,000 bond, you may actually walk away having purchased it for slightly more or slightly less. Treasury bonds issue interest payments to holders once every six months throughout the term of the bond.

For example, if you entered an auction looking to purchase a 30-year bond with a face value (or par value) of $500,000 and you came away with a coupon rate of 3.5%, you would receive a an annual interest amount of $17,500 in two, semi-annual installments. The interest you receive will be calculated using the face value of your bond, but if you manage to purchase that bond for *less* than the face value, you will effectively be earning at a higher interest rate.

If you were to purchase a bond with a shorter term, the mechanisms by which your interest is calculated and issued would remain unchanged, but the interest rate you’ll be able to obtain would likely be slightly lower. Current rates for two-year Treasury as of this article’s publication are between 3.0% and 3.25%, which would result in an annual interest amount of between $15,000 and $16,250.

Corporate Bonds

Many corporations choose to issue bonds as a fundraising strategy, and since even the sturdiest companies can’t quite match the guarantee of treasury bonds, they’ll often issue those bonds with higher interest rates. This makes them an attractive proposition for investors who don’t mind marginally more risk.

Similar to treasuries, most corporate bonds have a fixed interest rate attached to the par value of the bond, and that interest rate determines the annual amount of interest to be paid out most frequently in semi-annual installments.

According to data from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, high-grade corporate bonds are currently (at the time of this article’s publication) selling with average yields of 4.07%. So, if you purchased these corporate bonds with a par value of $500,000, you would be looking at annual interest payments of $20,350.

